README.md, before:

# gosnip: run small snippets of Go code from the command line

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip)
[![TravisCI Build](https://travis-ci.org/benhoyt/gosnip.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/benhoyt/gosnip)
[![AppVeyor Build](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/benhoyt/gosnip?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/benhoyt/gosnip)

Package gosnip is a tool that allows you to run small snippets of
Go code from the command line.

    usage: gosnip [-d] [-i import ...] statements...

To download and install, use "go get":

    $ go get github.com/benhoyt/gosnip

For simple uses, just specify one or more Go statements on the
command line, and gosnip will roll them into a full Go program and
run the result using "go run". Standard library imports are added
automatically. Some examples:

    $ gosnip 'fmt.Println("Hello world")'
    Hello world

    $ gosnip 'fmt.Println("Current time:")' 'fmt.Println(time.Now())'
    Current time:
    2018-11-24 16:18:47.101951 -0500 EST m=+0.000419239

The -i flag specifies an explicit import, which is needed for
non-stdlib imports or to disambiguate between ambiguous stdlib
imports such as "text/template" and "html/template" (multiple -i
flags are allowed). For example, -i is needed for "rand" because
the standard library has math/rand and crypto/rand):

    $ gosnip -i math/rand 'fmt.Println(rand.Intn(100))'
    81

The -d flag turns on debug mode, which prints the full program on
stderr before running it. For example:

    $ gosnip -d 'fmt.Println(time.Now())'
    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        "time"
    )

    func main() {
        fmt.Println(time.Now())
    }
    2018-11-24 16:33:56.681024 -0500 EST m=+0.000383308

The gosnip command-line tool is a thin wrapper around the
"sniplib" package. To run Go snippets in your Go programs, see the
[sniplib docs](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip/sniplib).

## Why?

I made gosnip because when coding in Go I often want to try little
snippets of code to see what they do, for example, "how does format
string `%6.3f` work again?" I could use the
[Go playground](https://play.golang.org/), but it's nice to be able
to use a one-line command. Also, I often develop while offline on my
bus commute, so don't have access to the online Go playground (yes, I
know it's possible to run the Go playground locally).

## License

gosnip is licensed under an open source [MIT license](https://github.com/benhoyt/gosnip/blob/master/LICENSE.txt).

## Contact me

Have fun, and please [contact me](https://benhoyt.com/) if you're using gosnip or have any feedback!

Commit message:

Use imports library (from goimports) to do auto-adding of imports
It's more useful than my hand-rolled one, and avoids me maintaining
that code. Thanks Sameer Ajmani for the suggestion.

Also add a -version flag and version number to gosnip. I'm categorizing
this as a "minor" version because it should only change some error
messages, not the API.

README.md, after:

# gosnip: run small snippets of Go code from the command line

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip)
[![TravisCI Build](https://travis-ci.org/benhoyt/gosnip.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/benhoyt/gosnip)
[![AppVeyor Build](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/benhoyt/gosnip?branch=master&svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/benhoyt/gosnip)

Package gosnip is a tool that allows you to run small snippets of
Go code from the command line.

    usage: gosnip [-d] [-i import ...] statements...

To download and install, use "go get":

    $ go get github.com/benhoyt/gosnip

For simple uses, just specify one or more Go statements on the
command line, and gosnip will roll them into a full Go program and
run the result using "go run". Standard library imports and any
imports needed for packages in GOPATH are added automatically
(using the same logic as the "goimports" tool). Some examples:

    $ gosnip 'fmt.Println("Hello world")'
    Hello world

    $ gosnip 'fmt.Println("Current time:")' 'fmt.Println(time.Now())'
    Current time:
    2018-11-24 16:18:47.101951 -0500 EST m=+0.000419239

The -i flag allows you to specify an import explicitly, which may be
needed to select between ambiguous stdlib imports such as
"text/template" and "html/template" (multiple -i flags are
allowed). For example:

    $ ./gosnip -i text/template 't, _ := template.New("w").Parse("{{ . }}\n")' \
                                't.Execute(os.Stdout, "<b>")'
    <b>
    $ ./gosnip -i html/template 't, _ := template.New("w").Parse("{{ . }}\n")' \
                                't.Execute(os.Stdout, "<b>")'
    &lt;b&gt;

The -d flag turns on debug mode, which prints the full program on
stderr before running it. For example:

    $ gosnip -d 'fmt.Println(time.Now())'
    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        "time"
    )

    func main() {
        fmt.Println(time.Now())
    }
    2018-11-24 16:33:56.681024 -0500 EST m=+0.000383308

The gosnip command-line tool is a thin wrapper around the
"sniplib" package. To run Go snippets in your Go programs, see the
[sniplib docs](https://godoc.org/github.com/benhoyt/gosnip/sniplib).

## Why?

I made gosnip because when coding in Go I often want to try little
snippets of code to see what they do, for example, "how does format
string `%6.3f` work again?" I could use the
[Go playground](https://play.golang.org/), but it's nice to be able
to use a one-line command. Also, I often develop while offline on my
bus commute, so don't have access to the online Go playground (yes, I
know it's possible to run the Go playground locally).

## License

gosnip is licensed under an open source [MIT license](https://github.com/benhoyt/gosnip/blob/master/LICENSE.txt).

## Contact me

Have fun, and please [contact me](https://benhoyt.com/) if you're using gosnip or have any feedback!
